src/content/guide/03-layercake-props.md, before:

---
title: LayerCake props
---

These are the props you can set on the `LayerCake` component itself. You set them all like so:

```svelte
<Layercake
  foo='foo'
  bar='bar'
>
</LayerCake>
```

The component also exports an `element` prop that represents the main wrapper, in case you need to access it for some reason. It also exposes this as a slot prop.

```svelte
<script>
	let mainElement;
</script>

<LayerCake bind:element={mainElement} let:element>
	{console.log(mainElement === element)}
</LayerCake>
```

### data `Array<Object|Array<any>>|Object`

A list of data items. If this is not a flat data array of objects, you'll also need to set [flatData](/guide#flatdata).

```svelte
<LayerCake
  data={ myData }
>
```

### x `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

The key in each row of data that corresponds to the x-field. This can be a string, number (usually relating to an index of an array), an accessor function, or any combination of those types. This property gets converted to a function when you access it through the context.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  x='myX'
  <!-- is equivalent to... -->
  x={ d => d.myX }
>
```

You can also give this value an array of strings or arrays of functions. While it may seem counter-intuitive to have more than one x- or y-accessor, this is the case in stacked layouts and Cleveland dot plots. See the [Stacked bar](/example/BarStacked), [Stacked area](/example/AreaStacked), [Stacked column](/example/ColumnStacked) or [Cleveland dot plot](/example/ClevelandDotPlot) for complete examples.

Here's an overview using the `d3.stack()` to make a horizontal bar chart, which will have two values for the x-accessor.

```js
const data = [
	{ month: new Date(2015, 3, 1), apples: 3840, bananas: 1920, cherries: 960, dates: 400 },
	{ month: new Date(2015, 2, 1), apples: 1600, bananas: 1440, cherries: 960, dates: 400 },
	{ month: new Date(2015, 1, 1), apples: 640, bananas: 960, cherries: 640, dates: 400 },
	{ month: new Date(2015, 0, 1), apples: 320, bananas: 480, cherries: 640, dates: 400 }
];

const stack = d3.stack().keys(['apples', 'bananas', 'cherries', 'dates']);

const series = stack(data);
```

The data is now an array of values. The `month` values you can't see because sneakily stashes them as a property on the array, accessible as `d.data`.

```js
[
	// apples
	[
		[0, 3840],
		[0, 1600],
		[0, 640],
		[0, 320]
	],
	// bananas
	[
		[3840, 5760],
		[1600, 3040],
		[640, 1600],
		[320, 800]
	],
	// cherries
	[
		[5760, 6720],
		[3040, 4000],
		[1600, 2240],
		[800, 1440]
	],
	// dates
	[
		[6720, 7120],
		[4000, 4400],
		[2240, 2640],
		[1440, 1840]
	]
];
```

The x- and y-accessors would then look like this:

```svelte
<LayerCake
  x={ [0, 1] }
  y={ d => d.data.month }
>
```

Calls to `x(dataRow)` in this scenario will return the two-value array. Calls to `xGet(dataRow)` will return a two-value array, mapped through the [xScale](/guide#xscale).

### y `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

Same as [x](/guide#x) but for the y dimension.

### z `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

Same as [x](/guide#x) but for the z dimension.

### r `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

Same as [x](/guide#x) but for the r dimension.

### debug `boolean`

If this is `true`, Layer Cake will print to the control a helpful debug message.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  debug={true}

  <!-- Can also be set simply with this Svelte shorthand -->
  debug
>
```

It will display:

1. The bounding box dimensions of your chart container
2. The scales you have currently set and for each one:
   1. The accessor function or string key
   2. The scale type
   3. The `domain`
   4. The `range`

It's helpful if you're trying to track down why a chart is not display correctly, which comes down to CSS not being set on the parent chart container or weird data issues (`undefined`, `NaN` values etc...) that are throwing off the extent calculation for the `domain`.

If your `domain` or `range` includes values that are colors, the debug interface will highlight them in that color.

![](/print-debug.png)

### padding `Object`

An object that can specify `top`, `right`, `bottom`, or `left` padding in pixels. Any unspecified values are filled in as `0`. Padding operates like CSS `box-sizing: border-box;` where values are subtracted from the parent container's width and height, the same as [a D3 margin convention](https://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/3019563). (It's not called "margin" here because the behavior is more like CSS padding which goes from the outer edge inward, whereas margin goes from the outer edge outward.)

```svelte
<LayerCake
  padding={ { top: 20, right: 10, bottom: 0, left: 0 } }
  // equivalent to...
  padding={ { top: 20, right: 10 } }
>
```

### xScale `d3.scaleLinear()`

The D3 scale that should be used for the x-dimension. Pass in an instantiated D3 scale if you want to override the default [`d3.scaleLinear()`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scalelinear) or you want to add extra options.

See the [Column chart](/example/Column) for an example of passing in a `d3.scaleBand()` to override the default.

### yScale `d3.scaleLinear()`

Same as [xScale](/guide#xscale) but for the y scale. The default is `d3.scaleLinear()`.

### zScale `d3.scaleLinear()`

Same as [xScale](/guide#xscale) but for the z scale. The default is `d3.scaleLinear()`.

### rScale `d3.scaleSqrt()`

Same as [xScale](/guide#xscale) but for the r scale. The default is [`d3.scaleSqrt()`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scalesqrt).

### xDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Set a min or max on the x scale. If you want to inherit the value from the data's extent, set that value to `null`.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xDomain={ [0, 100] } // Fixes the x scale's domain
  // or..
  xDomain={ [0, null] } // Fixes the min but allows the max to be whatever is in the data
>
```

This value can also be a longer array because sometimes your scales are [piecewise](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#continuous_domain) or are a list of discrete string values such as in [ordinal scales](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#ordinal-scales), useful for color series.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xDomain={ [-1, 0, 1] } // Could be useful to create a diverging scale
  // or..
  xDomain={ ['group-1', 'group-2', 'group-3'] } // Could be useful for a column chart
>
```

If you set a [`scaleBand`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scaleband), [`scalePoint`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scalepoint) or [`scaleOrdinal`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scaleordinal) to any of the scales, the automatically calculated domain will be a list of unique values for the associated accessor instead of a two-value `[min, max]` array. This is useful for color scales or groups. If you want to sort this group, you can pass a function to this prop and it will receive the calculated list of unique values as an argument.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  // Domain for a column chart was calculated as: ['1989', '1992', '1991', '1990']
  // and we want to sort it properly
  xDomain={ domain => domain.sort() }
>
```

### yDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Same as [xDomain](/guide#xdomain) but for the y scale.

### zDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Same as [xDomain](/guide#xdomain) but for the z scale.

### rDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Same as [xDomain](/guide#xdomain) but for the r scale.

### xDomainSort `boolean=true`

Taken into account only when the x-scale is ordinal. It sets whether the calculated unique items come back sorted. It uses [d3.ascending](https://d3js.org/d3-array/sort#ascending) to do the sort calculation.

Set this to `false` if you want the unique items to appear in the order they were found in the data.

### yDomainSort `boolean=true`

Same as [xDomainSort](/guide#xdomainsort) but for the y domain.

### zDomainSort `boolean=true`

Same as [xDomainSort](/guide#xdomainsort) but for the z domain.

### rDomainSort `boolean=true`

Same as [xDomainSort](/guide#xdomainsort) but for the r domain.

### xPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Assign a pixel value to add to the min or max of the x scale. This will increase the scales domain by the scale unit equivalent of the provided pixels. This is useful for adding extra space to a scatter plot so that your circles don't interfere with your y-axis. It's better than fussing with the range since you don't need to add a magic number to other components, like axes.

It will log out a warning if you try to use it on a scale that has a domain or range that isn't two items, such as with ordinal scales.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xPadding= { [10, 10] } // Add ten pixels of data units to both sides of the scale's domain
>
```

### yPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Same as [xPadding](/guide#xpadding) but for the y domain.

### zPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Same as [xPadding](/guide#xpadding) but for the z domain.

### rPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Same as [xPadding](/guide#xpadding) but for the r domain.

### xNice `boolean=false|number`

Applies D3's [scale.nice()](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#continuous_nice) to the x domain. This is a separate option instead of being one you can apply to a passed in scale because D3's "nice" transformation only works on existing domains and does not use a state to be able to tell if your existing scale wants to be nice. Can also pass `count` number as argument for greater control.

### yNice `boolean=false|number`

Same as [xNice](/guide#xnice) but for the y domain.

### zNice `boolean=false|number`

Same as [xNice](/guide#xnice) but for the z domain.

### rNice `boolean=false|number`

Same as [xNice](/guide#xnice) but for the r domain.

### xRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Override the default x range of `[0, width]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array.

This overrides setting [xReverse](/guide#xreverse) to `true`.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xRange={ [1, 100] }
>
```

It can also be a function:

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xRange={ ({ width, height }) => [0, width / 2] }
>
```

### yRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Same as [xRange](/guide#xrange) but for the y scale. Override the default y range of `[0, height]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array.

This overrides setting [yReverse](/guide#yreverse) to `true`.

### zRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Same as [xRange](/guide#xrange) but for the z scale. Override the default z range of `[0, width]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array.

This overrides setting [zReverse](/guide#zreverse) to `true`.

### rRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Same as [xRange](/guide#xrange) but for the r scale. Override the default y range of `[1, 25]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array. The r scale defaults to `d3.scaleSqrt` so make sure you don't use a zero in your range.

This overrides setting [rReverse](/guide#rreverse) to `true`.

### xReverse `boolean=false`

Reverse the default x range. By default this is `false` and the range is `[0, width]`.

This is ignored if you set [xRange](/guide#xrange).

### yReverse `boolean=true`

Reverse the default y range. By default this is `true` and the range is `[height, 0]` unless using `scaleBand` for yScale in which case this is `false`.

This is ignored if you set [yRange](/guide#yrange).

### zReverse `boolean=false`

Reverse the default z range. By default this is `false` and the range is `[0, width]`.

This is ignored if you set [zRange](/guide#zrange).

### rReverse `boolean=false`

Reverse the default r range. By default this is `false` and the range is `[1, 25]`.

This is ignored if you set [rRange](/guide#rrange).

### extents `Object`

Manually set the extents of the x, y or r scale. Setting values here will skip any dynamic extent calculation of the data for that dimension. This is similar to setting a fixed domain using `xDomain`, `yDomain`, `rDomain` or `zDomain` with the exception that this prop has the performance improvement of skipping the domain calculation. It may be removed in future versions, however. See [Issue #179](https://github.com/mhkeller/layercake/issues/179).

```svelte
<LayerCake
  extents={{ x: [0, 100], y: [50, 100], z: ['apple', 'carrot', 'ginger'] }}
>
```

### flatData `Array`

In order for Layer Cake to measure the extents of your data, it needs a flat array of items that the x, y, z and r accessors can find. If your data is not flat (often the case if your renderers prefer a nested format such as in [multi-series line](/example/MultiLine) charts or GeoJSON such as in [maps](/example/MapSvg)), you can tell it to measure extents against a flat version. This _will not_ change the shape of the data that gets passed to components — it is only for extent calculation.

> The library also exports a flattening function to handle common use cases if you need to flatten your data and you don't already have a flat version. See the [flatten](/guide#flatten) helper function for more info.

Here's an example showing passing different data formats for extent calculation versus data formats used by layer components.

```svelte
<script>
	import { LayerCake } from 'LayerCake';

	const data = [
		{
			key: 'apples',
			values: [{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 3840 } /*...*/]
		},
		{
			key: 'bananas',
			values: [{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 1920 } /*...*/]
		}
	];

	const flatData = [
		{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 3840, group: 'apples' },
		{ month: '2015-02-01', value: 1600, group: 'apples' },
		{ month: '2015-01-01', value: 640, group: 'apples' },
		{ month: '2015-00-01', value: 320, group: 'apples' },

		{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 1920, group: 'bananas' },
		{ month: '2015-02-01', value: 1440, group: 'bananas' },
		{ month: '2015-01-01', value: 960, group: 'bananas' },
		{ month: '2015-00-01', value: 480, group: 'bananas' }
	];
</script>

<div class="chart-container">
	<LayerCake x="month" y="value" {data} {flatData}>
		<!-- Components go here -->
	</LayerCake>
</div>

<style>
	/*
		The wrapper div needs to have an explicit width and height in CSS.
		It can also be a flexbox child or CSS grid element.
		The point being it needs dimensions since the <LayerCake> element will
		expand to fill it.
	*/
	.chart-container {
		width: 100%;
		height: 300px;
	}
</style>
```

### ssr `boolean=false`

Set whether this chart should be rendered server side. This is best used in conjunction with the [ScaledSvg](guide#scaledsvg) component or HTML components that are set to use percentage scales since you won't know the size of the container at render time.

Use it in conjunction with [`percentRange={true}`](guide#percentrange) to easily set up your scales for a percent coordinate systems.

### percentRange `boolean=false`

When rendering charts server side, you pretty much always want your scale range to be `[0, 100]` since you won't be able to base the range off of the target container's width. Use this convenience helper to set the ranges for any field that has an accessor to just that.

> The default range for the y-scale will be `[100, 0]` because `yReverse` defaults to `true`. All of the range reverse functions will work as usual with this.

### position `string='relative'`

Determine the positioning of the wrapper div. Set this to `'absolute'` when you want to stack two `<LayerCake>` components on top of one another, such as when you have one that is server-side rendered and one client side like in the [Annotated column](/example-ssr/Column) example.

### custom `Object`

Any extra configuration values you want available on the LayerCake context. This could be useful for color lookups or additional constants.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  custom={ { size: 10, names: ['a', 'b', 'c'] } }
>
```

Commit message:

Deprecate extents (#243)
* deprecate extents but replace its behavior

* return extents if no getters necessary

src/content/guide/03-layercake-props.md, after:

---
title: LayerCake props
---

These are the props you can set on the `LayerCake` component itself. You set them all like so:

```svelte
<Layercake
  foo='foo'
  bar='bar'
>
</LayerCake>
```

The component also exports an `element` prop that represents the main wrapper, in case you need to access it for some reason. It also exposes this as a slot prop.

```svelte
<script>
	let mainElement;
</script>

<LayerCake bind:element={mainElement} let:element>
	{console.log(mainElement === element)}
</LayerCake>
```

### data `Array<Object|Array<any>>|Object`

A list of data items. If this is not a flat data array of objects, you'll also need to set [flatData](/guide#flatdata).

```svelte
<LayerCake
  data={ myData }
>
```

### x `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

The key in each row of data that corresponds to the x-field. This can be a string, number (usually relating to an index of an array), an accessor function, or any combination of those types. This property gets converted to a function when you access it through the context.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  x='myX'
  <!-- is equivalent to... -->
  x={ d => d.myX }
>
```

You can also give this value an array of strings or arrays of functions. While it may seem counter-intuitive to have more than one x- or y-accessor, this is the case in stacked layouts and Cleveland dot plots. See the [Stacked bar](/example/BarStacked), [Stacked area](/example/AreaStacked), [Stacked column](/example/ColumnStacked) or [Cleveland dot plot](/example/ClevelandDotPlot) for complete examples.

Here's an overview using the `d3.stack()` to make a horizontal bar chart, which will have two values for the x-accessor.

```js
const data = [
	{ month: new Date(2015, 3, 1), apples: 3840, bananas: 1920, cherries: 960, dates: 400 },
	{ month: new Date(2015, 2, 1), apples: 1600, bananas: 1440, cherries: 960, dates: 400 },
	{ month: new Date(2015, 1, 1), apples: 640, bananas: 960, cherries: 640, dates: 400 },
	{ month: new Date(2015, 0, 1), apples: 320, bananas: 480, cherries: 640, dates: 400 }
];

const stack = d3.stack().keys(['apples', 'bananas', 'cherries', 'dates']);

const series = stack(data);
```

The data is now an array of values. The `month` values you can't see because sneakily stashes them as a property on the array, accessible as `d.data`.

```js
[
	// apples
	[
		[0, 3840],
		[0, 1600],
		[0, 640],
		[0, 320]
	],
	// bananas
	[
		[3840, 5760],
		[1600, 3040],
		[640, 1600],
		[320, 800]
	],
	// cherries
	[
		[5760, 6720],
		[3040, 4000],
		[1600, 2240],
		[800, 1440]
	],
	// dates
	[
		[6720, 7120],
		[4000, 4400],
		[2240, 2640],
		[1440, 1840]
	]
];
```

The x- and y-accessors would then look like this:

```svelte
<LayerCake
  x={ [0, 1] }
  y={ d => d.data.month }
>
```

Calls to `x(dataRow)` in this scenario will return the two-value array. Calls to `xGet(dataRow)` will return a two-value array, mapped through the [xScale](/guide#xscale).

### y `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

Same as [x](/guide#x) but for the y dimension.

### z `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

Same as [x](/guide#x) but for the z dimension.

### r `string|Function|number|Array<string|Function|number>|undefined`

Same as [x](/guide#x) but for the r dimension.

### debug `boolean`

If this is `true`, Layer Cake will print to the control a helpful debug message.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  debug={true}

  <!-- Can also be set simply with this Svelte shorthand -->
  debug
>
```

It will display:

1. The bounding box dimensions of your chart container
2. The scales you have currently set and for each one:
   1. The accessor function or string key
   2. The scale type
   3. The `domain`
   4. The `range`

It's helpful if you're trying to track down why a chart is not display correctly, which comes down to CSS not being set on the parent chart container or weird data issues (`undefined`, `NaN` values etc...) that are throwing off the extent calculation for the `domain`.

If your `domain` or `range` includes values that are colors, the debug interface will highlight them in that color.

![](/print-debug.png)

### padding `Object`

An object that can specify `top`, `right`, `bottom`, or `left` padding in pixels. Any unspecified values are filled in as `0`. Padding operates like CSS `box-sizing: border-box;` where values are subtracted from the parent container's width and height, the same as [a D3 margin convention](https://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/3019563). (It's not called "margin" here because the behavior is more like CSS padding which goes from the outer edge inward, whereas margin goes from the outer edge outward.)

```svelte
<LayerCake
  padding={ { top: 20, right: 10, bottom: 0, left: 0 } }
  // equivalent to...
  padding={ { top: 20, right: 10 } }
>
```

### xScale `d3.scaleLinear()`

The D3 scale that should be used for the x-dimension. Pass in an instantiated D3 scale if you want to override the default [`d3.scaleLinear()`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scalelinear) or you want to add extra options.

See the [Column chart](/example/Column) for an example of passing in a `d3.scaleBand()` to override the default.

### yScale `d3.scaleLinear()`

Same as [xScale](/guide#xscale) but for the y scale. The default is `d3.scaleLinear()`.

### zScale `d3.scaleLinear()`

Same as [xScale](/guide#xscale) but for the z scale. The default is `d3.scaleLinear()`.

### rScale `d3.scaleSqrt()`

Same as [xScale](/guide#xscale) but for the r scale. The default is [`d3.scaleSqrt()`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scalesqrt).

### xDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Set a min or max on the x scale. If you want to inherit the value from the data's extent, set that value to `null`. If you set an array with no `null`s, the dynamic extent calculation of the data for that dimension will be skipped. This can be useful as a performance improvement.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xDomain={ [0, 100] } // Fixes the x scale's domain
  // or..
  xDomain={ [0, null] } // Fixes the min but allows the max to be whatever is in the data
>
```

This value can also be a longer array because sometimes your scales are [piecewise](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#continuous_domain) or are a list of discrete string values such as in [ordinal scales](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#ordinal-scales), useful for color series.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xDomain={ [-1, 0, 1] } // Could be useful to create a diverging scale
  // or..
  xDomain={ ['group-1', 'group-2', 'group-3'] } // Could be useful for a column chart
>
```

If you set a [`scaleBand`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scaleband), [`scalePoint`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scalepoint) or [`scaleOrdinal`](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#scaleordinal) to any of the scales, the automatically calculated domain will be a list of unique values for the associated accessor instead of a two-value `[min, max]` array. This is useful for color scales or groups. If you want to sort this group, you can pass a function to this prop and it will receive the calculated list of unique values as an argument.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  // Domain for a column chart was calculated as: ['1989', '1992', '1991', '1990']
  // and we want to sort it properly
  xDomain={ domain => domain.sort() }
>
```

### yDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Same as [xDomain](/guide#xdomain) but for the y scale.

### zDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Same as [xDomain](/guide#xdomain) but for the z scale.

### rDomain `Array:[min: number|null, max: number|null]|Array<number|string>|Function`

Same as [xDomain](/guide#xdomain) but for the r scale.

### xDomainSort `boolean=true`

Taken into account only when the x-scale is ordinal. It sets whether the calculated unique items come back sorted. It uses [d3.ascending](https://d3js.org/d3-array/sort#ascending) to do the sort calculation.

Set this to `false` if you want the unique items to appear in the order they were found in the data.

### yDomainSort `boolean=true`

Same as [xDomainSort](/guide#xdomainsort) but for the y domain.

### zDomainSort `boolean=true`

Same as [xDomainSort](/guide#xdomainsort) but for the z domain.

### rDomainSort `boolean=true`

Same as [xDomainSort](/guide#xdomainsort) but for the r domain.

### xPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Assign a pixel value to add to the min or max of the x scale. This will increase the scales domain by the scale unit equivalent of the provided pixels. This is useful for adding extra space to a scatter plot so that your circles don't interfere with your y-axis. It's better than fussing with the range since you don't need to add a magic number to other components, like axes.

It will log out a warning if you try to use it on a scale that has a domain or range that isn't two items, such as with ordinal scales.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xPadding= { [10, 10] } // Add ten pixels of data units to both sides of the scale's domain
>
```

### yPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Same as [xPadding](/guide#xpadding) but for the y domain.

### zPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Same as [xPadding](/guide#xpadding) but for the z domain.

### rPadding `Array:[leftPixels: number, rightPixels: number]`

Same as [xPadding](/guide#xpadding) but for the r domain.

### xNice `boolean=false|number`

Applies D3's [scale.nice()](https://github.com/d3/d3-scale#continuous_nice) to the x domain. This is a separate option instead of being one you can apply to a passed in scale because D3's "nice" transformation only works on existing domains and does not use a state to be able to tell if your existing scale wants to be nice. Can also pass `count` number as argument for greater control.

### yNice `boolean=false|number`

Same as [xNice](/guide#xnice) but for the y domain.

### zNice `boolean=false|number`

Same as [xNice](/guide#xnice) but for the z domain.

### rNice `boolean=false|number`

Same as [xNice](/guide#xnice) but for the r domain.

### xRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Override the default x range of `[0, width]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array.

This overrides setting [xReverse](/guide#xreverse) to `true`.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xRange={ [1, 100] }
>
```

It can also be a function:

```svelte
<LayerCake
  xRange={ ({ width, height }) => [0, width / 2] }
>
```

### yRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Same as [xRange](/guide#xrange) but for the y scale. Override the default y range of `[0, height]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array.

This overrides setting [yReverse](/guide#yreverse) to `true`.

### zRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Same as [xRange](/guide#xrange) but for the z scale. Override the default z range of `[0, width]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array.

This overrides setting [zReverse](/guide#zreverse) to `true`.

### rRange `Function|Array:[min: number, max: number]|Array<number|string>`

Same as [xRange](/guide#xrange) but for the r scale. Override the default y range of `[1, 25]` by setting it here to an array or function with argument `({ width, height})` that returns an array. The r scale defaults to `d3.scaleSqrt` so make sure you don't use a zero in your range.

This overrides setting [rReverse](/guide#rreverse) to `true`.

### xReverse `boolean=false`

Reverse the default x range. By default this is `false` and the range is `[0, width]`.

This is ignored if you set [xRange](/guide#xrange).

### yReverse `boolean=true`

Reverse the default y range. By default this is `true` and the range is `[height, 0]` unless using `scaleBand` for yScale in which case this is `false`.

This is ignored if you set [yRange](/guide#yrange).

### zReverse `boolean=false`

Reverse the default z range. By default this is `false` and the range is `[0, width]`.

This is ignored if you set [zRange](/guide#zrange).

### rReverse `boolean=false`

Reverse the default r range. By default this is `false` and the range is `[1, 25]`.

This is ignored if you set [rRange](/guide#rrange).

### flatData `Array`

In order for Layer Cake to measure the extents of your data, it needs a flat array of items that the x, y, z and r accessors can find. If your data is not flat (often the case if your renderers prefer a nested format such as in [multi-series line](/example/MultiLine) charts or GeoJSON such as in [maps](/example/MapSvg)), you can tell it to measure extents against a flat version. This _will not_ change the shape of the data that gets passed to components — it is only for extent calculation.

> The library also exports a flattening function to handle common use cases if you need to flatten your data and you don't already have a flat version. See the [flatten](/guide#flatten) helper function for more info.

Here's an example showing passing different data formats for extent calculation versus data formats used by layer components.

```svelte
<script>
	import { LayerCake } from 'LayerCake';

	const data = [
		{
			key: 'apples',
			values: [{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 3840 } /*...*/]
		},
		{
			key: 'bananas',
			values: [{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 1920 } /*...*/]
		}
	];

	const flatData = [
		{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 3840, group: 'apples' },
		{ month: '2015-02-01', value: 1600, group: 'apples' },
		{ month: '2015-01-01', value: 640, group: 'apples' },
		{ month: '2015-00-01', value: 320, group: 'apples' },

		{ month: '2015-03-01', value: 1920, group: 'bananas' },
		{ month: '2015-02-01', value: 1440, group: 'bananas' },
		{ month: '2015-01-01', value: 960, group: 'bananas' },
		{ month: '2015-00-01', value: 480, group: 'bananas' }
	];
</script>

<div class="chart-container">
	<LayerCake x="month" y="value" {data} {flatData}>
		<!-- Components go here -->
	</LayerCake>
</div>

<style>
	/*
		The wrapper div needs to have an explicit width and height in CSS.
		It can also be a flexbox child or CSS grid element.
		The point being it needs dimensions since the <LayerCake> element will
		expand to fill it.
	*/
	.chart-container {
		width: 100%;
		height: 300px;
	}
</style>
```

### ssr `boolean=false`

Set whether this chart should be rendered server side. This is best used in conjunction with the [ScaledSvg](guide#scaledsvg) component or HTML components that are set to use percentage scales since you won't know the size of the container at render time.

Use it in conjunction with [`percentRange={true}`](guide#percentrange) to easily set up your scales for a percent coordinate systems.

### percentRange `boolean=false`

When rendering charts server side, you pretty much always want your scale range to be `[0, 100]` since you won't be able to base the range off of the target container's width. Use this convenience helper to set the ranges for any field that has an accessor to just that.

> The default range for the y-scale will be `[100, 0]` because `yReverse` defaults to `true`. All of the range reverse functions will work as usual with this.

### position `string='relative'`

Determine the positioning of the wrapper div. Set this to `'absolute'` when you want to stack two `<LayerCake>` components on top of one another, such as when you have one that is server-side rendered and one client side like in the [Annotated column](/example-ssr/Column) example.

### custom `Object`

Any extra configuration values you want available on the LayerCake context. This could be useful for color lookups or additional constants.

```svelte
<LayerCake
  custom={ { size: 10, names: ['a', 'b', 'c'] } }
>
```
